#summary How to install FreetuxTV.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This page explain the different way to install FreetuxTV.

= From repositories =

The most simple way to install FreetuxTV is to install it from a repository. By this way, you don't have to take take about dependencies.

== From official repositories ==

The most easy is to install FreetuxTV from package included in your distribution. However, only a few part of the distribution have included FreetuxTV in their repository.

Here is the list of the distribution including a package in their repositories :

|| *Distribution* || *Included* || *Installation* ||
|| Ubuntu || - || ||
|| Debian || Yes || aptitude install freetuxtv ||
|| Mandriva || Yes || ||
|| openSUSE || - || ||
|| Pardus || Yes || ||
|| Frugalware || Yes || ||

== From non official repositories ==

Some non official repositories exists for some distributions. This allow to get more recents versions than official repository.

=== Ubuntu ===

You can use the PPA (Personal Package Archive) of FreetuxTV team's

* PPA Stable (recommended) *

This PPA contains packages of the last stable version of FreetuxTV. 

  * https://launchpad.net/~freetuxtv/+archive/freetuxtv

{{{
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:freetuxtv/freetuxtv
sudo aptitude update && sudo apt-get install freetuxtv
}}}

* PPA Unstable *

This PPA contains daily built packages with the last sources of FreetuxTV. Be careful! These versions may not work correctly.

  * https://launchpad.net/~freetuxtv/+archive/freetuxtv-dev 

{{{
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:freetuxtv/freetuxtv-dev 
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude install freetuxtv
}}}

=== openSUSE ===

Run the following commands to install openSUSE repository.

* 12.1 *
{{{
zypper ar -n packman-multimedia http://packman.inode.at/suse/openSUSE_12.1/Multimedia packman-multimedia
}}}

* 11.4 *
{{{
zypper ar -n packman-multimedia http://packman.inode.at/suse/openSUSE_11.4/Multimedia packman-multimedia
}}}

Then install freetuxtv:

{{{
zypper refresh
zypper install freetuxtv
}}}

= From software packages =

You can download directly packages without using repository.

Packages are availiable here : http://freetuxtv.eric-beuque.com/packages/.

For now, FreetuxTV team's provides package for the following distribution and architecture:

|| *Distribution* || *32bits* || *64bits* ||
|| Ubuntu || Yes || Yes ||
|| Debian || Yes || Yes ||
|| Mandriva || Yes || - ||
|| openSUSE || Yes || Yes ||
|| Fedora || Yes || - ||

We are looking for people who can create package for the others Linux distributions.

_*Note :*_

FreetuxTV 0.4.0 packages for the Linux distribution "Arch Linux" are availiable here for 32bits: http://repo.x-demon.org/archlinux/os/i686/ and here for 64 bits: http://repo.x-demon.org/archlinux/os/x86_64/

FreetuxTV 0.4.1 packages for the Linux distribution "Pardus" are availiable here for 32bits : http://miroir.pardus-fr.org/2009-depot-fr-test/ and here for 64 bits : http://repo.x-demon.org/archlinux/os/x86_64/

= From sources =

== Stable version ==

Download and compile the sources from the tarball here : http://code.google.com/p/freetuxtv/downloads/list.

== Developement version ==

FreetuxTV is also avaliable in developement version. You can install and use it without any problems to watch TV or listen radio with the last new features. Have a look at the file [http://code.google.com/p/freetuxtv/source/browse/trunk/README README] to know how to install it. 
